# R&D CHALLENGE #1: SENSOR + API RESEARCH 
  
## SUMMARY
Our first R&D Challenge will focus on research and selection of a new depth sensor, to begin testing with for R&D 2. Additional research and testing will begin for API integration with the p5.js library. The team will begin to create new structures and organize for the work ahead. 

## USE OF AI AND ATTRIBUTION    
Use of AI for this course is allowed (and encouraged) under the following conditions: Any usage of AI for course deliverables, whether in research, writing, or code, must be attributed. Attributions must clearly indicate where and how AI was used, along with the AI model used. Code generated by AI needs to be carefully tested and understood before it is integrated and pushed to GitHub. Research conducted with AI must be carefully reviewed with additional sources to confirm accuracy (AI is very often wrong). These additional sources must also be linked or otherwise cited within deliverables. For questions, consult your PM and AB.


## FINAL DELIVERABLES AND REPORTS (due 3/4/25)  
Each team member will be responsible for different types of deliverables (see details below), and everyone will be submitting a written report of some kind. It is recommended that you work on reports in Google Docs, so that you may easily invite others to collaborate as needed. Before submitting your report, please make sure that your name (first name and last initial) is at the top of the document, along with the R&D Challenge # and due date. For the writing itself— these are not essays, and we are not looking for fancy writing. Reports may be in paragraph form and/or organized by bullet points. Above all, they should be concise, clear, well-organized, and proofread for grammar and spelling. In other words, they should be of a quality that you’d turn into a boss at work, or something you might post on a public-facing blog. All research and quotes must be attributed, with links and/or citations to original sources. 
   
Submit all deliverables (except for code) to the RAD-Challenge-1 folder on Google Drive (find link on Discord).    


## CODE SUBMISSION (due 3/4/25)  
Push code to our GitHub repository, with clear folder labels and comments at the top of each sketch. In the comments, include names of all contributors and attributions to any outside resources used.  **Ten is the Team Code Manager, consulting with Aaron as PM as needed.**    
  
## PRESENTATIONS (due 3/4/25)  
Details below.   
  
# ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES  
  
## Project Manager (Aaron)
**ONGOING RESPONSIBILITIES:**  
* **Be our Time Boss.** Keep us on schedule for:   
  * morning meetings 11:30-12 (15-20 minutes BHN Exercise, 10 min planning/announcements).
  * wrap up and exit by 2 for lunch.
  * afternoon meetings 2:30-3.     
* **Oversee lab setups and breakdowns.**     
  * Coordinate with AB, CLT, and team.   
* **Check in with all team members throughout the day.**  
  * Is everyone on track?  
  * Are there any issues or bottlenecks coming up?  
  * Report back to AB with any significant challenges.    
* **Post Progress Logs** by the end of each session to Google Drive.     
  * Include notes from AM/PM meetings.  
  * Summarize progress for all groups (researchers, software devs, etc.).    
* **Oversee Class GitHub Repo**  
  * Work with Ten to oversee code organization, ensure all code has been pushed to GitHub by end of each sesion, with pull requests and merges as needed. 
* **Oversee Class Deliverables on Google Drive**  
  * Are work-in-progress deliverables on the Drive by the end of each class?
  * Are final deliverables clear and well organized?  
   * Check in with team members with incomplete or missing deliverables. 
  
**R&D 1 IDENTIFYING RESOURCES / GETTING ORGANIZED:**       
The main mission for R&D 1 is to become as familiar as possible with the project as a whole, the team's varying roles, initial research needs, and the potential needs for moving prototype V2 forward. 
  * **Schedule "Be Here Now" activities** with team members (see dates on syllabus schedule). Everyone will lead at least 2 BHN activities, leading for the second time after everyone on the team has led for the first time. Anyone leading a third activity in the last few weeks of the semester will receive extra credit. Send the assignments to AB on Discord.
  * **Coordinate Class Google Drive access** with team members.              
  * **Review** structure and materials in V1 folder.     
  * **Consider Integrating Project Management Tools** and discuss with AB and team.
   
**RAD 1 DELIVERABLES:**       
* **Daily Progress Logs.**  

* **RAD 1 Summary.**  
  * Briefly summarize how you spent your time, any challenges you may have encountered, and anything else important that we should know.        

**RAD 1 PRESENTATION:**    
* Present a 10-15 minute summary of your findings.  
  
## Researchers (Noel, Eric, Aaron) and Creative Technologist (Gabe or Jay)   
Work jointly and/or divide up the following research needs.  

**Research Types of Depth Sensing Technology:**
* Include: structured light, stereo vision, ToF (Time of Flight), LiDAR, and Event-Based Depth Sensors.  
* Note definitions for any new technical terms coming up.   
* Note pros and cons / limitations for each type of depth sensing technology.   
  
**Research Depth Cameras Currently on the Market:**   
We are updating our depth camera from prototype V1, which was a Kinect 360 depth sensor using "structured light" technology. This research will inform what we purchase and begin testing in R&D 2. 

**Create a list of depth cameras** meeting the following criteria:  
  * Compatible with Mac Silicon M2+. Ideally also cross platform, compatible with Windows.    
  * Actively maintained with updated SDK. At most 2 years since prior updates or market launch.     
  * Depth range of at least 10 feet, ideally has range up to 20-30 feet.  
  * A minimum depth FOV (field of view) in the ballpark of the Kinect 360 (which was 58.5 x 46.6 degrees), ideally with wider FOV.   
  * Suitable for low light environments.   
  * Use cases include tracking multiple participants through skeletal data or COM (Center of Mass).  
  * High resolution (4k) is NOT a part of the criteria for our use case. We would at most use 1920x1080 HD resolution, possibly lower, due to intensive processing.  
  * Priced under 1k.  
  * Include Orbbec Astra 2 and OAK-D Pro to the list, if meeting all criteria above.

  **Deepen Your Research and Narrow Down the List:**
  * Assess the camera specs, online reviews, and features to narrow down the list.  
  * Review the available SDK. Is additional 3rd party software needed?  
  * Research options for bringing data in from the sensor to p5.js. 
    * Does it need a backend server set up?  
    * Include brief summaries describing Node.js, WebSockets, HTTP, Web Serial API, and other communication protocols that might be relevant.   
  * Ideally find examples / demos online showing how people might be tracked (e.g. map of skeleton keypoints if avaialvble).

  **After Thorough Assessment, Rank the Top 3 Sensors That You Recommend for Purchase for Prototype V2.** 

  
**RAD 1 DELIVERABLES:**     

         
**Individual R&D 1 Summary:**  
  * Briefly summarize how you spent your time, any challenges you may have encountered, and anything else important that we should know.            

**Collaborative R&D 1 Report:**      
* Present the research findings above using Google Doc and spreadsheet.  

**Collaborative R&D 1 Presentation:**      
* Present a 10-20ish minute summary of your findings.  
  
## Software Developers (Ten) + Creative Technologist (Gabe or Jay)

**Research and Test API Integration:** 
* Review past API materials on our Google Drive, update presentation and report as needed, and bring them up to date.  
* Scan through API brainstorm spreadsheet, to get a sense of past API ideas for use in the project. Hold off on updating the spreadsheet (we will do this later).  
* Either from the spreadsheet, or from your own research, select a free API for pulling current NYC weather data. Create a demo with an API call showing the live weather data integrated into a p5.js sketch. (This can be a very simple sketch, simply proof of concept.)
* After the first demo is working, research how to integrate ChatGPT using an API call. Create at least one simple demo using p5.js showing this in action.

**R&D 1 DELIVERABLES**:   
  * **Updated API Report and Presentation**  

  * **Code Pushed to GitHub from Demos noted above**           

  * **Individual R&D 1 Summary.**  
    * Briefly summarize how you spent your time, any challenges you may have encountered, and anything else important that we should know. 
  
**R&D 1 PRESENTATION:**    
* In a 10-15 minute presentation, present a  general API overview along with the new demos. 

 
 
 
      